Product: Patient Journey Automation
Created by Mayank, last modified on Mar 09, 2021
① Problem description
Most other tools provide very limited and rigid automation around appointments and journeys

Clinics has limited use for these tools because of lack of functionality

Clinics are forced to use manual efforts to supplement the limited automated tools

② Proposed value
It allows clinics to use zero code workflow builders to create and customize journeys across channels like SMS, Email, Phone, Fax using checkpoints targeted and patient and physician engagement

③ Proposed solution
Phelix is developing a zero code and fully configurable patient journey builder that allows clinics to configure and automate specific journeys and mini digital experiences for common conditions or cohort groups, helping to proactively deliver care. Clinics can select from existing templates or configure their own time or event based checkpoints, configure their own EMR inclusion/exclusion logic and rules, customize their messages and response flows across all channels, and embed notifications with fully customizable, temporary, and secure web links that let you build your own mini digital health experiences (like Shopify for healthcare), including identity verification, screenings, self check-in, appointment booking, viewing test results, sharing records, digital payments, and more, all without downloading an app

④ Alternative solutions
Manually via phone

EMR-integrated patient engagement app

mobile-app focused (for patients)

limited engagement via app

not as customizable

simple functionality

SMS and email reminders

Competitors

https://wellapp.com/ (healthcare focused)

https://www.podium.com/ (generic, clinics use for reviews)

⑤ Scope
Form Builder

Clinical Elements

Medication Capture

Front-end

Designs - https://www.figma.com/file/JOQsg9BgAZ1h684U2GRkPh/Phelix.AI?node-id=2220%3A10859

https://www.medisafeapp.com/

Back-end

Need to find the DB for Search

NDC

RxNorm

Upload to Oscar (via Integration Interface)

Features

Medication List

Problem List

Medication Adherence (encounter notes in patient chart)

Report Side Effects (encounter notes in patient chart)

Checkpoint Builder

Email

Build interface like SMS

New Trigger Type - Campaigns

Pre-created template

Importing CSV

Basic Campaign tracking (opens, clicks, form submissions)

Segmentation

SMS

Campaigns

Email

SMS

Virtual Waiting Room/Wayfinding

⑥ Dependencies
ⓘ List out which external people or teams are implicated by this problem and/or solution.

⑦ Success Criteria
ⓘ What measures, if any, will help us to define success?

X customers by Y.

Patient journey automation is to create and customize all outbound patient workflows (mostly around appointments)

Finalizing baseline patient journey automation (for needs of WELL/akumin)

Form Builder

Debashis/Ahsan

Virtual Waiting Room

Checkpoint Builder

Time-based

Requirements

Reminder before X hours of appt. With customizable SMS as per clinic.

If instant confirmation SMS not replied, then trigger confirmation call after 1 hour of appt created. Twilio call implementation.

Weekly confirmation setting on MS for each clinic. If it's on then send weekly confirmation SMS, EMAIL

If Weekly confirmation is on then send weekly confirmation CALL to patient.

Rewrite the current function acc to the new microservice

Changes in architecture re: implementation, functionality remains the same

Aditya

API

Validation

token/auth

New dev

Flag (leave for now)


Resources - 1 BE (new)

Next Step - Document Epic and User Stories

Track here - https://phelix.atlassian.net/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=15&projectKey=FOR&selectedIssue=FOR-25

Attachments:
 Screen Shot 2021-02-21 at 4.12.01 PM.png (image/png)

Form Builder
Navigation
Current - Home > Manage Menu > eForm Assistant


New - Home > Control Panel Menu > Patient Journey Automation > Form Builder

Requirements
 

Form Builder - Home Screen (design - Phelix Web App)

User can create a new form by clicking a button and entering

Form Name

Form Type

User is able to see two sections

My forms

Active Forms

User can edit a form

User can view form submissions

Draft Forms

User can edit a form

Domain settings

 

Form Builder - Edit Screen

Global Settings

Form Name

Form Template (currently Form Type)

Design Settings

Add button to apply to all forms (in the account)

Step Settings

Step Name

Step Type

Normal Step

Logic Step

Redirect Step (coming soon) (design to be modified Phelix Web App)

e.g. user

 is in the middle of a check-in form and wants to check if an action is done on a previous form (e.g. registration done, payment done etc.)


Convert ^ to Step instead of an Element

Form Configuration

If Reg/Payment/Check-in/Confirm is Yes/No

Redirect to one of the above form

If Complete

*Move to next step

If Not Complete

*redirect to incomplete form for user to fill

**when user completes this

***take back to the original form

Form Preview


You need to complete the Form Name to proceed

Button that says go to Form Name

Skip the OTP for the redirected form

Once the form is completed, redirect back to the original form

Change Form Tag to Appointment Tag

Form Configuration

Default Elements

Logo

Form Title

Form Description

Form Submission (currently Last Step URL/Action) Phelix Web App

Add redirect to form

Borrow the same logic as Redirect Step (e.g. skipping OTP etc.)

Logic Elements

Dropdown

Radio

Yes/No

Acts like a default radio

Multi Section Screening

Clinical Elements

COVID Screening (done)

Height/Weight (done)

Medication Capture (in progress)

Medication List - Phelix Web App 

Patient can add a list of all Medications they take

List of medications is automatically populated from the DB

If Allergies is Yes, patient can add a list of all Allergies they have

If Include Details is Yes, capture additional details for each medicine

Condition (text)

Frequency (dropdown)

As Needed

Every Day

* 1 times a day, 2 times a day, 3 times a day…24 times a day

Specific Days

* 1 times a day, 2 times a day, 3 times a day…24 times a day

* Day selection - Sunday, Monday, Tuesday… (multiple choice)

Days Interval

*Every 2 days, Every 3 days, Every 4 days…Every 365 days

Strength (text)

Units (dropdown)

g, IU, mcg, mcg/hr, mcg/ml, mEq, mg, mg/cm2, mg/g, mg/ml, mL, %

Data Source

disable the dropdown and only show Phelix Directory for now

Medication Adherence

Report Side Effects

Anatomy Diagram (coming soon)

Injury workflow

View Test Results (coming soon)

Vaccine Screening (coming soon)

Smart Elements

Walk-in Appointment (done)

Patient Verification

Basic Verify ID

all the EMR search/create is going to happen at the end of Form Submission

One Time Password (currently called Verify Patient ID (Smart Element))

rename it to One Time Password

by default uses Phone, need to add Email as option

if Phone/Email match, ask user to choose one for receiving OTP

change form config of Patient ID for user to choose between Basic Verify ID and OTP

Preferred Pharmacy  - Phelix Web App (in progress)

Search from a list

Choose how to receive prescription

Booking

Single Location (default)

Multi Location (activate if multi location available)

GP or Family Doctor - Phelix Web App (in progress)

On

search to see if patient has family doctor listed in chart

*Yes

** present dates for that doctor

*No

**revert to have a walk-in booking view

Change form config to combine single and multi location booking

All bookings except walk-in have to be done behind OTP

Insurance (in progress)

Collect Insurance Info

Run Insurance Eligibility Check

Waystar

Third-party

Payment (in progress)

Show Invoice

Collect Payment

Back-end

Integration w/ TSYS

Language (in progress)

Choose Language

Back-end

Depending on the language, run translation engine

PDF Consents (in progress)

Back-end

Converting final signed doc to PDF

Save the PDF to the EMRs

Basic Elements (currently Form Elements)

Dropdown

Radio

Multiple Choice

Heading

Paragraph Text

Input Field

Text Area

Phone Number

Date of Birth

File Upload

Image Upload

Family Doctor Booking

Fields

Title (text)

Schedule Template Code (text)

Walk-in Selection (dropdown)

Next available

Patient choice

Show failed appointment creation message (boolean)

Form Preview

EMR API Used
Break it down by each element first, and then break it down by the EMR

Oscar

Base URL: https://phelix.kai-oscar.com/oscar

Patient search: /ws/services/demographics/search

FormBuilder Component: Smart ID Verification

FormBuilder Component: Walk-In Appointment 

Get Patient By ID: /ws/services/demographics/<patient_id>

FormBuilder Component: Smart ID Verification

FormBuilder Component: Walk-In Appointment 

Create New Patient: /ws/services/demographics/ 

FormBuilder Component: Walk-In Appointment

 

INFINITT

Base URL: https://akuminapi.infinittna.com

Patient Search: /R4/Patient

FormBuilder Component: Smart ID Verification

Location Search: /R4/Location/getLocation

FormBuilder Component: Multi-Location Booking

Available Month Search: /R4/Phelix/getAvailableMonths

FormBuilder Component: Multi-Location Booking

Available Day Search: /R4/Phelix/getAvailableDays
FormBuilder Component: Multi-Location Booking

Slot Search: /R4/Slot

FormBuilder Component: Multi-Location Booking

 

Accuro

Base URL: https://q1-accapi.accuroemr.com

Patient Search: /rest/v1/provider-portal/patients/search

FormBuilder Component: Smart ID Verification

Meeting Notes
Date

Notes

7th Apr 2021

Decouple all Elements so they can work in any combination

First step is always going to be Patient Verification

No EMR Search

Basic EMR Search

Patient found

record the patient and move on (just inform we have found a match)

Patient not found

Option to create/register a new patient

EMR Search + OTP

Add frontend and backend validation so the first element is always patient verification

Add any steps/elements which work independently

EMR integrations within each of the elements

Patient Appointment

Primary

Walkin and family doc

Speciality

single and multi loc

Form Submission

Binding all events with form submission

Form submission timeout after 20mins of inactivity

COVID screener in the middle (low priority)

Design

info bubble for each element

navigate to the rest of the app

Ending the session/access token is only when the user logs out of the account

Better solution in the future

 

 

Old Discussion (ignore)
Form Builder

Clinical Elements

Medication Capture

Front-end

Designs - Phelix.AI 

https://www.medisafeapp.com/

Back-end

Need to find the DB for Search

NDC

RxNorm

Upload to Oscar (via Integration Interface)

Features

Medication List

Problem List

Medication Adherence (encounter notes in patient chart)

Report Side Effects (encounter notes in patient chart)

Two types of form can be created:

Fresh form from scratch

From form template

When creating form from templates, select a template from dropdown

Click edit button to edit specific form from this page.


This will led a page looks like this:


Here’s marked boxes are described below

Form name and save buttons

Form template selection and form name edit field

Main design settings and section management (Create, edit, delete)

Form’s global settings

Form elements on selected section (elements must be selected from 6,7,8,9)

List of Basic elements

List of Logical elements

List of Smart elements

List of Clinical elements

Form url/link and preview

Form settings has x parts.

Form name

Form template selection

Section management

Design settings

Global settings

 


 

There should be at least one section in each form.

Sections can be organized by dragging and dropping in configuration.

Sections are basically 2 types

Normal

Logical

Logical section is a collections of multiple normal steps.

Configuration:

Preview:

 

Form elements can be dragged and dropped. Also they can be added by clicking the left most button (green colored):


 

are basically 4 types.

Basic elements (currently Form elements)


Logical elements


Smart elements


Clinical elements 


 

Basic verify patient id, 
Configuration:
Fields can be showed or not by using blue toggle button.
If EMR Search is enabled, EMR patient search will be enabled.



Preview:


Basic verify patient id v2 (under development)

Single location booking
Preview:
a)


b) date selection:


c) Verified:

d) Failed:

Dropdown
Configuration:

Preview:

Radio
Configuration:  Same as dropdown
Preview:

Multiple choice
Configuration:  Same as dropdown
Preview:

Heading

Paragraph

Input text

Textarea
Same as input text (9). But preview will be text box

Phone number
Same as input text (9). But can only be entered phone number

Date of birth

File upload

Image upload
Same as file upload (13) but only images can be uploaded

Multi section Screen
Let’s assume a form has 3 sections:
- Section A
- Section B
- Section C
In this section patients will be asked one or multiple questions, but only same options will be showed (currently “Yes“, “No”, “Maybe”)

According to patient’s response, he/she will be redirect to another sections or another element of another section.
Logic can be set like this:
if the response is YES/NO/MAYBE of ANY/ALL questions, then jump to selected section of selected elements
Otherwise jump to selected section of selected elements

Also, in addition along with section/element jump, custom flags or screen can be set up.

Section/Element: jump to specific section or element according to response.
Custom flag: Set a value into database according to response
Screen: Show a customized screen according to response.




All configurations should be set before save. (After this element setup, sudden section configuring might break the whole app during response)
Next step button is customized with this element.

Radio button
This element is almost same as the previous. Differences with the previous element are:

Options/Response value can be changed.

Logic will be set by the response of each question.
eg: if response of this question is that, then go there.

Flags and screens are not available

Prioritized logic from top to bottom.

All configurations should be set before save. (After this element setup, sudden section configuring might break the whole app during response)
Next step button is customized with this element.

 

Verify Patient id
Configuration: Add photo can be enabled or disabled.
Preview: 
a) Enter details


b) Enter OTP:


c) Verified


d) Failed


 
Next step button is customized with this element.

Walk in appointment
Configuration:



Preview:


Next step button is customized with this element. Next step can be accessed by selecting an appointment.
Dependency: Required Basic Verify Patient ID before this element.

Multi location booking
Preview:
a) address
Allow location access from top left corner (general notification if mobile device)


Address input field


Type to see location options. Location will be selected from the dropdown


Select clinic to book appointment.

Then select date and time to complete booking.

Response if no clinics found.

Preferred pharmacy

Insurance
Insurance can be two types:
 - Self
 - Non-self
For non-self insurance. Relation with insurance holder should be mentioned

Preview:
a) Insurance information


b) insurance verified


Failed:

Next step button is customized with this element.

Payment
Preview:
a) To be paid receipt

b) Payment information

c) Payment success

Failed

Language
Configuration:

Language can be added from dropdown and be removed.

Preview:


Next step button is customized with this element.

Signature
Preview:

Signature can be uploaded as image by this sign board (use mouse of finger if mobile). For example:


Pdf consent

Configuration:

Click this button to upload a new file

After a successful upload this will look like this

Click on the name to upload another file

Click on + Add signing Area to add area of sign, date etc.

Drag and create rectangle to select area. Then mark the area from the dropdown

Rectangle area cannot be moved. It needs to be remove and create again.

Preview:

Blue bordered blank boxes are signature field. Click to add your signature.

Top section is raw sign board, and bottom has some pre populated signature using handwriting fonts. Type your name or initials to generate signature. 

 Text field (TBD)

 

Current

One set of checkpoints for all clinic accounts

Future

Each clinic should be able to set their own checkpoints

In Auth MX (handling auth, issuing tokens) - Syed

Backend

updated to include refresh token (in case it gets expired) every 15 mins

need to add a DB which saves the token for each clinic

Frontend

at the time of login, auth mx will be called and stored in local, which expires in 15mins

every time we encounter 401, frontend pulls/refreshes a new token


 

